Thoughts on Past-Life Memories, NDEs, OBEs, Precognition

Proper epistemology: distinguish truth from deceptions

There’s a free ebook titled Scientific Evidence for Reincarnation, NDEs, and Karma with Personal Stories published by the Open Research Consortium. It’s a 1,600+ page compilation that aggregates hundreds of historical anecdotes, past-life regression accounts, and paranormal claims, drawing heavily on early researchers like Ian Stevenson. I bring it up here because it’s the most comprehensive aggregation of accounts up to date, and the interesting thing is that it contains precisely zero dual-control proof, meaning studies that independently isolate information leakage from the start and have their results independently peer-verified. Despite claiming to be the Scientific Evidence for the phenomenon.

I do not put much stock in personal anecdotes or testimonies because humans are notoriously unreliable when it comes to memory and objectivity. There are massive risks of information leakage, confirmation bias, memory distortion, substance-induced hallucinations, mental illnesses, ulterior motives, and countless other confounding variables.

For past-life memories, what prevents the subjects, or their parents, from simply researching the details beforehand and fabricating a story? I would be much more interested in cases where someone remembers a past life as an disgusting insect, like a dung beetle or a flesh fly. Why is it always a historical human figure, God-like entities, or someone with a dramatic, easily researchable backstory?

When it comes to Near-Death Experiences (NDEs), they do not actually prove what death or the afterlife looks like. If a person is truly dead, they are not coming back to tell the story isn’t it? It’s always “I died and saw the embodiment of Love” or “I died and saw Buddha being cooked in the Sea of Fire”. No you weren’t dead hence it’s why you’re still here, and your bias brain was just hallucinated or made things up. These cases at best are just glorified delusions happening in a failing brain that grasping for straws. That is why people consistently see Jesus, specific religious figures, lovely beings, light tunnels, their opponents in hell, or deceased family members. It’s a clear manifestation of deeply ingrained cultural conditioning, psychological yearning, or just pure and condensed horse manure.

This was demonstrated by the AWARE Study, a large-scale medical study led by Dr. Sam Parnia. Researchers placed randomized target images on high shelves near the ceilings of cardiac arrest wards, completely invisible from the floor or a hospital bed. Out of more than 2,000 cardiac arrest cases analyzed across multiple hospitals, there was not a single confirmed instance of an out-of-body patient being able to read or identify those hidden visual targets. Parnia’s team wrote plainly that “if no one sees the pictures, it shows these experiences are illusions or false memories,” and reported that no subjects saw the images mounted out of sight.

For Out-of-Body Experiences (OBEs), to be taken seriously, the experiencer should be able to read a specific sentence written on a piece of paper hidden inside a sealed container. If they are truly detached from their physical body and aware of the external environment, this should be easy. But all we get are vague and high-probability guesses like the movements of the medical staff or the operation of the equipment. These are things anyone can easily deduce or pick up through sensory leakage, especially in a hospital.

The same goes for precognition. If someone can see the future, they should be able to accurately name the upcoming lottery numbers, and do it two or three times in a row to prove it is not a fluke. Anyone can make vague, open-ended guesses and retroactively claim they predicted an event. Repeated and hyper-specific accuracy is the only thing that actually makes a difference.

The story of 2yo Dhammaruwan chanting Pali suttas is a tragedy more than anything else, it’s just textbook childhood drilling. Growing up in a deeply devout household provided ample opportunity for passive auditory mimicry. The reality of his daily routine is disturbing to say the least: waking a toddler at 2:00 AM every single morning for rigid meditation and hours of exhausting vocal recitations, what’s that if not intense domestic coaching?

I genuinely want the afterlife and psychic powers to be true (and I’m on the same boat with Siha AN5.34#7.9 where he has to put faith on the Buddha regarding the afterlife), but to claim for a fact that there is rebirth and there’s proof of it, are an entirely different caliber. Anecdotes and testimonies are not evidence, even more so for extraordinary claims, and the empirical data to date remains at absolute zero. Anyone claiming proof of rebirth or paranormal phenomena must provide data from a rigorous, dual-control framework, utilizing randomized, double-blind, and independently peer-verified environments that completely eliminate placebo effects and isolate information leakage from the start. That of which separates Big Pharma rigorous drug testing from alternate medicine snake-oil grifters. Because without this, any unfalsifiable claim goes.

Until then, I’m quite tired by the endless claims of past-life farmers in neighborhood villages, princes, princesses, high priests, heroic veterans, prominent figures, seing Jesus, or seing the Buddha suffer in hell. Show me a case of someone who remembers being a dung beetle or NDE of becoming a flesh fly maggot for a change, rather than a predictable projection of human ego, cultural yearning, or just outright fraudulence.